---
layout: distill
title: Notes on bilevel optimization
description: based on “A review on bilevel optimization From classical to evolutionary approaches and applications" as well as other materials
tags: optimization
giscus_comments: true
date: 2024-07-26
featured: true
toc:
  sidebar: left

authors:
  - name: Jiawen Bi
    affiliations:
      name: ISyE, UMN

bibliography: 2024-07-24-bilevel.bib
# bibliography: 2018-12-22-distill.bib

toc:
  - name: Bilevel Optimization
  - name: Classical Approaches
    subsections:
      - name: Single-level Reduction
      - name: Penalty Function Methods
      - name: Trust-region Methods
  - name: Moreau Envelope for bilevel optimization


# Below is an example of injecting additional post-specific styles.
# If you use this post as a template, delete this _styles block.
_styles: >
  .fake-img {
    background: #bbb;
    border: 1px solid rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.1);
    box-shadow: 0 0px 4px rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.1);
    margin-bottom: 12px;
  }
  .fake-img p {
    font-family: monospace;
    color: white;
    text-align: left;
    margin: 12px 0;
    text-align: center;
    font-size: 16px;
  }

---

## Bilevel Optimization

This theme supports rendering beautiful math in inline and display modes using [MathJax 3](https://www.mathjax.org/) engine.
You just need to surround your math expression with `$$`, like `$$ E = mc^2 $$`.
If you leave it inside a paragraph, it will produce an inline expression, just like $$ E = mc^2 $$.

To use display mode, again surround your expression with `$$` and place it as a separate paragraph.
Here is an example:

$$
\left( \sum_{k=1}^n a_k b_k \right)^2 \leq \left( \sum_{k=1}^n a_k^2 \right) \left( \sum_{k=1}^n b_k^2 \right)
$$

Note that MathJax 3 is [a major re-write of MathJax](https://docs.mathjax.org/en/latest/upgrading/whats-new-3.0.html) that brought a significant improvement to the loading and rendering speed, which is now [on par with KaTeX](http://www.intmath.com/cg5/katex-mathjax-comparison.php).

***

## Classical Approaches

Given the difficult nature of bilevel problems, it is
not surprising that much of the classical literature considers
bilevel problems that are mathematically well-behaved; i.e.,
contains functions that are linear, quadratic or convex. Strong
assumptions like continuous differentiability and lower semi-
continuity are quite common.

### Single-level Reduction

In <d-cite key="ishizuka1992double"></d-cite>, the problem is reduced into a single level problem by replacing penalty term with its KKT conditions.
Also, there are many ways to set penalty. 

For instance, in <d-cite key="yao2024constrained, lu2024first"></d-cite> they consider using penalty term to convert bilevel 
optimization problems to minimax problems.

### Penalty Function Methods

Distill chose a numerical inline citation style to improve readability of citation dense articles and because many of the benefits of longer citations are obviated by displaying more information on hover.

### Trust-region Methods

However, we consider it good style to mention author last names if you discuss something at length and it fits into the flow well — the authors are human and it’s nice for them to have the community associate them with their work.

***

## Moreau Envelope for bilevel optimization

Just wrap the text you would like to show up in a footnote in a `<d-footnote>` tag.
The number of the footnote will be automatically generated.<d-footnote>This will become a hoverable footnote.</d-footnote>
